# Rice

**1. Rinse the rice.**

Ugh, I know, rinsing is annoying, but it takes 20 seconds and gets rid
of dusty starches that may result in excess stickiness. Just place your
rice in a fine mesh strainer and rinse under cold water until the water
runs clear.

**2. Remember the ratio.**

For most types of rice, you'll always use a ratio of 1 cup rice to 2
cups water, which you can scale up or down. (Double-check your rice
packaging to be sure.) Feel free to swap in chicken or vegetable broth
for more flavor.

**3. Bring the water to a boil**

Then stir in rice and salt. And if you want to add a tab of butter, too,
go for it — your rice will taste 10x better.

**4. Get a steady simmer.**

After adding the rice, the temperature of your water will drop
significantly, and it'll stop boiling. Let it come back to
a gentle simmer (otherwise you run the risk of your water cooking off
faster than your rice gets tender).

**5. Don't take off the lid.**

Cover the saucepan and reduce heat to low. Though it will be tempting,
keep the lid on! You don't want to mess with the steam. This is very
important!

**6. Check at 18 minutes.**

For long grain white rice, I always set a timer for 18, knowing that it
could need another minute or two. Let the rice be your indicator, not
the water. If there's a little water leftover, it's totally fine! Just
tilt the saucepan slightly to drain it out. (Cooking brown rice? Check
at 30 minutes.)

**7. Leave it alone.**

Turn off the heat, replace the lid, and let it rest for a few minutes in
the steamy saucepan. Patience is a virtue, my friend. 

**8. Fluff it up!**

Use a fork to gently mix and lift rice to make sure that the grains
don't stick together. 

If you have a rice cooker, the game is a lot easier. Use the same magic
ratio and throw everything into the rice cooker, which does all the work
for you. When the machine says it's ready, the same "leave it alone" and
fluffing instructions apply. 

**Recipe taken from**
https://www.delish.com/cooking/a20089653/how-to-cook-rice/ 
